INSTALLING THE SOFTWARE:
1. Visit www.gpg4win.org. Click on the ―Gpg4win 2.3.0‖ button2. On the following screen, click the ―Download Gpg4win‖ button.
3. When the ―Welcome‖ screen is displayed, click the ―Next‖ button4. When the ―License Agreement‖ page is displayed, click the ―Next‖ button
5. Set the check box values as specified below, then click the ―Next‖ button6. Set the location where you want the software to be installed. The default location
is fine. Then, click the ―Next‖ button.
7. Specify where you want shortcuts to the software placed, then click the ―Next‖
button.8. If you selected to have a GPG shortcut in your Start Menu, specify the folder in
which it will be placed. The default ―Gpg4win‖ is OK. Click the ―Install‖ button
to continue
9. A warning will be displayed if you have Outlook or Explorer opened. If this
occurs, click the ―OK‖ button.10. The installation process will tell you when it is complete.
Click the ―Next‖
button
11. Once the Gpg4win setup wizard is complete, the following screen will be
displayed. Click the ―Finish‖ button12. If you do not uncheck the ―Show the README file‖ check box, the README
file will be displayed. The window can be closed after you‘ve reviewed it.
CREATING YOUR PUBLIC AND PRIVATE KEYS
GPG encryption and decryption is based upon the keys of the person who will be
receiving the encrypted file or message. Any individual who wants to send the person an
encrypted file or message must possess the recipient‘s public key certificate to encrypt the
message. The recipient must have the associated private key, which is different than the
public key, to be able to decrypt the file. The public and private key pair for an individual is
usually generated by the individual on his or her computer using the installed GPG program,
called ―Kleopatra‖ and the following procedure:1. From your start bar, select the ―Kleopatra‖ icon to start the Kleopatra certificate
management software
2. The following screen will be displayed3. From the ―File‖ dropdown, click on the ―New Certificate‖ option
4. The following screen will be displayed. Click on ―Create a personal OpenGPG key
pair‖ and the ―Next‖ button5. The Certificate Creation Wizard will start and display the following:
6. Enter your name and e-mail address. You may also enter an optional comment. Then,
click the ―Next‖ button7. Review your entered values. If OK, click the ―Create Key‖ button
8. You will be asked to enter a passphrase9. The passphrase should follow strong password standards. After you‘ve entered your
passphrase, click the ―OK‖ button.
10. You will be asked to re-enter the passphrase11. Re-enter the passphrase value. Then click the ―OK‖ button. If the passphrases match,
the certificate will be created.
12. Once the certificate is created, the following screen will be displayed. You can save a
backup of your public and private keys by clicking the ―Make a backup Of Your Key
Pair‖ button. This backup can be used to copy certificates onto other authorized
computers.13. If you choose to backup your key pair, you will be presented with the following
screen:
14. Specify the folder and name the file. Then click the ―OK‖ button.15. After the key is exported, the following will be displayed. Click the ―OK‖ button.
16. You will be returned to the ―Key Pair Successfully Created‖ screen. Click the
―Finish‖ button.17. Before the program closes, you will need to confirm that you want to close the
program by clicking on the ―Quit Kleopatra‖ button
DECRYPTING AN ENCRYPTED E-MAIL THAT HAS BEEN SENT TO YOU:
1. Open the e-mail message2. Select the GpgOL tab
3. Click the ―Decrypt‖ button4. A command window will open along with a window that asks for the Passphrase to
your private key that will be used to decrypt the incoming message.
5. Enter your passphrase and click the ―OK‖ button6. The results window will tell you if the decryption succeeded. Click the ―Finish‖ button
top close the window
7. Your unencrypted e-mail message body will be displayed.8. When you close the e-mail you will be asked if you want to save the e-mail message in
its unencrypted form. For maximum security, click the ―No‖ button. This will keep the
message encrypted within the e-mail system and will require you to enter your
passphrase each time you reopen the e-mail message
RESULT:
Thus the secure data storage, secure data transmission and for creating digital
signatures (GnuPG) was developed successfully.
